Welcome traveler from the West. Are you friend or foe?
Welcome, #.
I have not forgotten what harm the nomads of the North have done to us.
The hills of these lands glitter with gold.
The air is sweet here.
The wine of the Empire is the highest good.
We're going north to war, #. Are you ready to take up arms? Fight against the nomads?
Watch out for nomads, #. They kill our people with arrows and steal their bodies.
Better not go to rainforests, #. I was told that scorpions and mad elephants live there.
The people of Mossovia are related to us, #, but we are not particularly interested in what is happening there.
The islands in the north sea are covered with fog. It is said that those who came to its shores never returned.
A long time ago, # when the power of the Empire was still great, we defeated the army of nomads and enslaved them. But they rebelled!
The nomads chose a woman as their leader, who is not even twenty years old! This is a bad omen, but I am a civilized person and do not believe in stupidity.
The Ibbenians sometimes go around the continent from the east and come to us. Last time they showed us a living mammoth. This is power!
What news have you brought from the West?
Tell us something about distant countries.
Shadowcasters sometimes traverse these roads, heading across Bone Ridge to distant lands.
You have an accent like Westerners, #.
Aren't you a friend of the nomads?
Have you already been to Asshai, #? They say that you cannot drink water there.
People from all over the world often come here to exchange goods and interesting stories. From them I heard about the great forests and mighty trees that are outside our country.
If I were you, I would not go to Mossia, #. It is full of scary werewolves and eccentric hunters.
Welcome friend! Tell me an interesting story.
Don't forget, #, we make our own history.
Think before you open your mouth. This is my advice.
I tell you, #, the Free Cities and Kingdoms of Westeros are nothing compared to our Empire.
The Mossians are not as strong as they boast. Don't trust them, #.
#, Will you help us achieve justice?
About five years ago I went west, wanted to have a look, to find out what was going on there. But I did not find anything particularly interesting there.
I will never understand why the people of the steppes do not want to live a civilized, sedentary life. Nomadic barbarism is the last century.
I know a joke about white walkers and black men.
A true warrior will not abandon his sword, #. Will die, but will not let go of him.
In Ibbene they eat whales, in Mossovia they eat wolves, in Asshai they eat snakes ... I wonder if we are the only normal people in this world?
Be happy.
Be happy, #.
I would not say that I love shadow casters, but they do not badly help us in the war.
Appearances are deceptive, #.
Will you finally stop poking at me?
I wonder if the people of the Seven Kingdoms take off their armor altogether? What if they need to relieve themselves?
Go in peace, #.
Bloody curmudgeons! Greedy Neanderthals! These dwarfs are constantly trying to cheat me!