Holy crap.
Ah, the #! I think we've met before. Or am I wrong?
Ah, sweet dandelions! Such beautiful, fluffy flowers. They often grow in these lands.
In the old days we lived in peace and harmony, but those times are long gone...
In any unclear situation, treat with plantain. Folk medicine is like that.
It's been a nightmare in the fields this year, #. I'm hoping for a better harvest next year.
Truly, it was better before.
Come on, # tell me a tale to cheer my heart.
Welcome to our land, #!
Welcome, #. What business brings you here?
Welcome, #. Eh, if you had come to our land in happier days...
Welcome, Mr. #. Is there anything I can do for you?
Good morning, #! You mean it's not morning? I think mornings last all day, and the later it is, the kinder it is.
Good day, #.
If you happen to come across a wild patch of tobacco, show me the place. I'll get high.
Do you have any good news, #?
Do you have anything to drink?
Life gets better, life gets more fun.
Life should be easy.
What village are you from, #?
Every winter a cold darkness falls over half the world.
Everyone who doesn't have a horse dreams of buying one. Everyone who has a horse dreams of selling it. And the only reason he doesn't do it is because if he sells it, he won't have a horse.
How are you doing?
What news do you carry with you?
What news, #?
People from one land flee to another, away from conflict. They bring trouble, but I think we can handle it.
Few things are as beautiful as the sight of the first rays of the sun. Or do you prefer the sunset?
We do our best to defeat enemies from the outside, #. But there is little we can do against the enemies among us.
Our land welcomes you, #.
Fear not, my friend. You can trust me.
I won't bore you with old stories about the good old days and green grass.
Don't be angry, boyar, I don't acknowledge you... Are you a prince?
Have you decided to speak to me first? Ah, that's so nice!
The right man in the wrong place can turn the world upside down.
Nice day today, isn't it?
Greetings, #!
Rise and shine, Mr. #, rise and shine. No, I don't mean that you sleep on the job. No one deserves a rest more than you do. 
These are troubled times for our people. And in fact, all over the world, things are not well.
Tell me, #. What do you know about far away countries?
There's some disturbing news. Shall I tell you?
You're not from around here, are you, #?
Nature has no bad weather, # Every weather is a blessing.
Scientists speak of a time when Valyria was a shining jewel among the nations of men. Alas, those times are forever lost.
There are tales that thousands of years ago, the Inhumans came from the north. But these are only folk tales; they cannot be true...
Well met, #!
I wish I could welcome you here in happier times.
This country is my home, #. I fear for all of us in these dark days.
These are dark times for us, #.
Eh, I'd rather be drinking wine in a tavern than this.
I've seen the ruins of Valyria with my own eyes. There's only silent grief, a reminder of the state's dark decline.
I must get back to work, #. Time for business, time for pleasure.
I must warn you, # The world is not what it used to be.
I love bumblebees. Big, beautiful, furry creatures. I could look at them for hours.
I hope I die my death in my old age.
I hate lies. I only tell the truth.
I am your faithful friend, # as long as you treat my people well.