Оh, #. It's been a long time since I've seen you! You're right on time, as always. There's a big construction site about five miles away, and we really need resources! It would be nice to be able to build a fortress and fill it up before winter, we really need to get some $ for that. Can you help with that?
Greetings, #! My family has managed to get out of poverty in the last five years - my sister has started her own business, and her shop is in good demand! If you'd like to be our supplier, I'm sure you have $ to sell.
Hi, #! Even though we don't know each other, I hope you won't refuse me a favor. My sister is getting married, and we're actively collecting her dowry right now. We're almost done, now we just need to find $. Help us with that, and I'll pay you back generously.
Good day, #! It's so good to see you. I'm going to my friend's birthday party now, and, horribly, I'm going there empty-handed. Maybe you have some $? I know a merchant who will buy it, and I'll use the money to buy a gift for my friend.
#, I need your help right away! My dad camped out in the woods and hunted a bear with a lighted pole. Anyway, the bear caught fire and ran off into the woods. In the chase, the father got lost and lost his tent and junk. There was $ in the tent. We really need that stuff, please help us get it back.
Oh-ho-ho, #. My grandmother was a witch and taught me various tricks as a child. Would you like me to show you one? Bring me some $. I'll wave my hand, and all this will disappear, and coins will appear out of nowhere in the air and fall at your feet.
Oh, my life... I am at a loss... A sorcerer from a neighboring village told me that if I find $ before the end of the year, good fortune will follow me and my descendants to the end of the ages! #, tell me, do you have any $? I'd give anything to get it.
Oh, my God, # you're just in time! Poverty was killing our family. My father stole $ from the vault, so he could sell it and get rich. But it was discovered and my father was taken into custody! Please, give me the $, I'll take the stuff back to the place and set my father free.
Hey, pie buddy, I've got a job for you: bring me the $, and don't ask me why I need it.
My family bought a nice house nearby. It's spacious, but it's pretty uncomfortable. It's got... how shall I put it... there's nothing. No stuff, no furniture. $ is what we need.