Beware! There is a rogue outlaw lurking in these lands, pillaging and slaying our people. And you, #, are the righteous judge. You know what must be done!
My lady has entrusted me with seeking aid from a noble soul. She has rejected the advances of a highborn lord, and in his anger, he has hired an assassin to harm her. I cannot allow this to pass. Will you lend your hand, #? All suspicions point to $.
I-I cannot reveal the name of my employer. Help me, good sir. Deal with the villainous scoundrel, I implore you. This individual poses a serious threat!
Meiga has foretold that my life will be taken by a man named $. She has never been wrong, #! She predicted the demise of my father, my sister, and even my faithful hound. I do not wish to embrace death! Will you aid me in vanquishing my would-be killer?
Listen closely, #. There is a thief lurking near our lord's domain, robbing noble ladies of their jewels. If you catch sight of the culprit, deal with them. Our lord will express his gratitude.
There is a brigand in our village who steals gems from the nobility. Help me put an end to his thieving ways, #.
I must flee from my family and seek refuge in a distant land, #, but my father is displeased, as I carry his dark secrets with me. A murderer has been sent to hunt me down. I need your help to survive.
A midwife has escaped from our lord's realm, holding knowledge of the true lineage of certain children born to my mother. In her anger, she has sent an assassin after her, but Aunt Velma has always been kind to me... I cannot bear to witness her demise due to my mother's secrets. Assist me in foiling the murderer before he reaches the midwife, #.
My lord has tasked me with finding a brave warrior. Indeed, #, he is a formidable man who lends money to many. Yet my lord has little patience for debtors. $ owes him a debt, #. Deal with him using your sword.
I am indebted to the lord, and my livelihood is in ruins! I am undone! Thus he has declared. He swears that if I dare to flee, he will hire someone to end me. I seek escape, but unease plagues me... I implore you, do not let him be the harbinger of my demise! Deal with him before he strikes!