#, I have a favor to ask of you. Our commander urgently needs $ to build a camp. Help him out, and I'll cover your expenses.
#, I have a favor to ask of you. Our merchant says that if you buy $ now and sell it back in a year, you can become twice as rich. Don't refuse the request, help me find the $.
They say there was a fire in a neighboring village. The poor people have lost all their possessions. They are in great need of $ to rebuild their farm. If you can help them, they'll be very grateful.
Good day, #! It's so good to meet you. It's my friend's birthday soon, but I don't have money for a present. Maybe you have some $? I know a merchant who will buy it, and I'll use the money to buy a present for my friend.
Good day, #! I hear there's a plague in the neighboring village. And in such cases, you have to run away! We're going to settle 15 kilometers from here, and we need resources. Can you help us and get us some $? We need it to get settled in the new place.
Long summer to you, #! I'll tell you what, there's a fair nearby and I need $ to sell to a foreign merchant. Would you do me a favor and help me get it?
Dear #, I need your help. Our dilapidated altar is about to collapse and we need to raise funds to repair it. We are gathering all our possessions and selling them to merchants to raise money. Do you have any $? A merchant told me he'd buy it for a high price.
Hello, #! A local merchant asks me to find and deliver $ to him. He says that without it, his business is in danger of going bankrupt. He offers a good reward for the successful completion of the task. Will you help me accomplish his task?
Hello, #. My sister has promised that when she collects the $, she will go to build a separate home for her new family. She wants to please us and finally move out with her children, obviously. Please help speed this up!
Hello, #. I hear you're a reliable man. I have a case for you - a friend of mine is thinking of starting his own business, but because of the stupid rules that prevent the insolvent and unreliable from trading, he doesn't have enough $ to sell. Can you help him out?
О, #! Perfect timing. Our supply of provisions is running low and winter is near. We need money to buy food, which we usually get from a merchant looking for $. Perhaps you can provide us with $? We will reward you generously for it.
Oh, #, just in time. I'm asking for your help in acquiring $. It is necessary to build a workshop where I will then produce tapestries. Will you help?
Oh, #, good to see you! You know, we've got some thieves around here. They cleaned out the local blacksmith's place. Why don't you help the poor guy and give him back his $? He'll thank you very much.
Oh, # you're here just in time! Poverty was killing our family. My father stole $ from the common vault to sell it and get rich. But the theft was discovered and my father was taken into custody! Please, give me the $, I'll take the stuff back and free my father.
О, #. It's been a long time! You're very timely, as always. There's a big construction site about five versts from here, and we need resources! We'd better build a fortress and fill it before winter, and we'll need $ to do it. Can you help us with that?
Oh, good to see you, #! My neighbor, an old hunter, is asking me to get him some $. He says he needs to build a cabin where he can live for long periods of time during the hunting season away from the village. If you help him, we'll thank you very much.
Wow, #, you're just in time! I have a big favor to ask of you - our troop needs resources to build a camp. We're going camping in a couple days. Can you give us a hand?
Greetings, #! I have a favor to ask of you - my wife is sick and I don't have enough money for medicine. But the healer is willing to exchange the medicine for $. Could you help me get it? We'll be eternally grateful for your kindness.
Greetings, #. Our jeweler promises to turn any object into gold. I don't know if he's lying or not, but give me $ and I'll go experiment. I'm sure it's a scam, and I'm warning you. You in?
Greetings, #! In the last five years, my family has managed to get out of poverty - my brother started his own business, and his shop is in good demand! If you want, become our vendor - I think you'll have $ to sell.
Salud, #! An acquaintance told me he discovered a treasure in the neighboring woods. But he refuses to share the loot until I pay him back what I owe him last year. I owe him $. Maybe you have some of this? I'll pay you back.
You're not gonna believe this, but a friend of mine is in desperate need of $. She wants to move to a new place and settle down, but it's reckless to go anywhere. I'm sure she'll thank you for your help.
I got a favor to ask of you, #. My neighbors lost everything in the tornado. They're asking for help rebuilding their farm. Maybe you got some $?
Uh, you! Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Our gunsmith is asking for $ for him. He wants to build a training ground for our squad. Will you help him with that?
Hey, #! You know, an old friend of mine's getting married, but he needs some dowry money. He'll thank you if you can help him out. What do you say?
Hey, #, here's the deal. The commander wants me to find him some $. He says he needs the $ to pay off the bandits. We don't want to fight, so we're gonna go along with it. Can you help us find the resources?
Hey, #. A local rich man says his barns were robbed and the $ stolen. He's willing to pay a pretty penny to anyone who can recover what they stole.
Hey, #. Our merchant really needs $ to build a shop and start trading. He's short on funds and is looking to see if anyone has some extra resources. Maybe you can help him out.
Hey pie buddy, I've got a job for you: bring me some $ and don't ask me why I need it.
Hey, you! Yeah, you. My brother wants me to find some $ for him. He plans to bait the bandits on abandoned items and then raid them with a raid. Please help me find the bait.