They say a rich merchant is coming here soon. I wonder what he's coming for?
They say a strange stranger has appeared nearby. His clothes and manners are unlike anything we've seen before.
They say strange creatures have appeared in the forest. What do you think of this?
Have you heard the latest news? It's amazing!
You know, I recently came across a very rare manuscript. I wonder if you'd like to see it.
You know, an acquaintance of mine is going to marry off his daughter. I wonder to whom?
I saw one of the preachers sneaking into the woods the other day. I wonder where he's going?
A friend of mine has already seen a new traveling merchant. They say he has some rare and expensive goods. Should we buy them?
I can't help but share with you this fascinating story I've just been told. You should know it!
Has anything interesting happened to you lately? I'd love to hear your stories!
Recently, friends have told me a couple of interesting stories about ghosts that supposedly roam the neighborhood woods. Do you believe in such things?
I recently came across a fascinating book about ancient legends. Perhaps you'd like to hear about them?
There's talk of our commander going on a quest. I wonder if it's true or just an idle rumor.
Greetings, dear friend. How are you today?
I came across a preacher today. His words seem very convincing, but what do you think?
Tell me honestly, do you believe that that strange old man in the suburbs really talks to Azor Ahai himself?
Tell me honestly, do you believe that dragons really exist? There are incredible stories told about these creatures.
Don't you think the weather has become too unstable these past few days? I'm beginning to worry.
Have you been told that our land was visited by a traveler from faraway lands? He told amazing things!
Have you been told of that strange incident at the fair? They say it ended in a fight!
Did they tell you that one of the merchants nearby was accused of witchcraft because of his good fortune? That's just awful!
Have you seen the big tree nearby? They say it's a thousand years old!
Did you know that there was a real robbery at our tavern recently? They say the thieves took a lot of valuables.
Do you happen to know why our commander seems so pensive and sad lately?
The streets whisper that our blacksmith has been invited to work in a faraway land. I wonder if it's true or just speculation?
There are rumors of what goes on in the ruins. You're the only one I can trust with these rumors!
Rumor has it that one of our artisans has invented something amazing. It's a pity he keeps it a secret.
There's a persistent rumor that our commander is planning a new military campaign. I wonder where he'll be going this time.
This year has been a bumper crop. I think we should discuss how best to utilize this abundance.
I've been following the construction of the altar with great interest. I think it will be a real centerpiece of this place.