#. I see your pockets are full of all sorts of rubbish! Let me replace them with a few coins ...
Bring me your trash in exchange for coins.
Bring me all the debris and debris, #!
I offer the best prices for scrap metal!
Trade has been slow lately. Maybe you could help me ...
Silver for the wreckage! No questions asked!
No, rusty metals are not accepted.
Do you need a coin, #?
I could trade a bag of coins for a pile of rubbish.
These wild lands are riddled with fear. But fear no more! Metal for silver is right here!
Once I had so much gold that even the dwarfs admired!
You are a good person, #. Maybe you can do me a favor by bargaining with me?
Iron, tin, copper and steel. Sell ​​it to me to make money for lunch!
I have spent a lot of time in the market and can easily identify a potential client. Hello, #!
Some people call me shabby. I prefer the term "experienced".
Disagreement is my profession, silver is my salary.
The merchants make good poets of us; perhaps I will tell you one of my rhymes.
I even traded with kings, #.
I buy any metal products. Spoons, pots, pans, helmets ...
Ah, #. Would you do me the honor of giving your trash in exchange for coins?
#! Have you come to trade?
In my humble opinion, I am the best trader in the world!
I've been on the road for a long time, #. But I'm not tired yet
#. Buying scrap metal is my specialty
I consider myself a master of trade. You can bring me some junk and check it out.
My favorite metal? Hmm ... that's gold! But some rusty debris would be nice too.
Lead is the cheapest among all metals.
I dream of beautiful clothes, a morning home ... a pile of gold ...
I smell metal!
I personally like the ale! To you too? I could give you coins in exchange for metal. Just enough for a couple of cups.
If you suddenly want to get rid of garbage, you know where to find me, #.
You don't need to carry this stuff with you, #. I will take it for myself, I will pay you, and you can fulfill your wildest dreams.
I will even buy half of the sword from you if there is nothing else.
I can buy any metal, any!
My travel is as good as my deals.
Bring me your trash and I will fill your palms with money.
What? No, of course not. I'm not going to buy this stuff from you for a pittance, then resell it to others at exorbitant prices.
What should I do with all this rubbish? Why am I buying it? Well, that doesn't concern you, my friend.